Update sysid plots. (#1710)
wpilibsuite/frc-docs: source/docs/software/pathplanning/system-identification/viewing-diagnostics.rst

Viewing Diagnostics
===================

Goodness-of-Fit Metrics
-----------------------

> There are three numerical accuracy metrics that are computed with this tool: acceleration r-squared, simulated velocity r-squared, and RMSE.

Reviewer: I don't think we should use RSME until we have defined it (as below).
```suggestion
There are three numerical accuracy metrics that are computed with this tool: acceleration r-squared, simulated velocity r-squared, and Root Mean Squared Error.
```

> There are three numerical accuracy metrics that are computed with this tool: acceleration r-squared, simulated velocity r-squared, and standard deviation of the simulated velocity error.

Reviewer: This line now mentions standard deviation but below it still talks about RMSE.  I am pretty sure those aren't the same thing.  Which is it doing?

Author: They are indeed the same thing.  The RMSE is the standard deviation of the error...

.. image:: images/viewing-metrics.png
   :alt: Analysis accuracy metrics

The `r-squared <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coefficient_of_determination>`__ metric refers to the goodness of fit of the tool's `OLS (Ordinary Least Squares) fit <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ordinary_least_squares>`__.  The `RMSE (Root Mean Squared Error) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Root-mean-square_deviation>`__ is the error (in the measured units) between the collected velocities and the predicted velocities from a simulation based on the feedforward gains.

> The acceleration r-squared is the fraction of the variance in measured acceleration (used as the independent variable in the SysId regression) explained by the linear model.  This is usually quite low, because acceleration is very susceptible to system noise.

Reviewer: Maybe we could provide a reference to how low is "quite low".  I don't think most people reading this have a frame of reference here.

> The acceleration r-squared is the fraction of the variance in measured acceleration (used as the independent variable in the SysId regression) explained by the linear model.  This can be quite variable variable, because acceleration is very susceptible to system noise.  Assuming the other fit metrics are acceptable, values near ``1`` indicate an "ideal" mechanism with few disturbances, while values near ``0`` indicate a noisy mechanism with substantial physical vibrations/losses.

Reviewer 2: If this is not so important, maybe it shouldn't be listed first.

Author: I'm not sure I'd say it's not important - it's definitely a useful measurement.  The ordering in the docs matches the ordering on the UI.

The simulated velocity r-squared is the fraction of the variance in measured velocity explained by a noiseless simulation of the motor movement stepped forward with the constants determined from the regression.  A value north of ``.9`` indicates a good fit.

> The simulated velocity RMSE is the standard deviation of the velocity error from the simulated model.  This is a good estimation of the amount of process noise present in your system, and can be used as a starting guess for the model noise term in :ref:`state-space control <docs/software/advanced-controls/state-space/state-space-intro:Introduction to State-Space Control>`.

Reviewer 3: It's actually a very conservative lower bound. It's a bad guess if your data isn't representative of the disturbances the system will experience. For example, game pieces slowing the flywheel down wouldn't be included.

> The simulated velocity RMSE is the standard deviation of the velocity error from the simulated model.  This is a good estimation of the amount of process noise present in your system, and can be used as a starting guess for the model noise term in :ref:`state-space control <docs/software/advanced-controls/state-space/state-space-intro:Introduction to State-Space Control>` - remember, though, that there may be more external forces to handle in actual operation than during your test routine.

Reviewer: Is the RMSE also a simulated velocity?  We don't refer to it as that above.  Seems strange to just refer to it as RMSE above and now simulated velocity RMSE, when the simulated velocity r-squared stayed consistent.

> The simulated velocity RMSE is the standard deviation of the velocity error from the simulated model.  This is a good estimation of the amount of process noise present in your system, and can be used as a starting guess for the model noise term in :ref:`state-space control <docs/software/advanced-controls/state-space/state-space-intro:Introduction to State-Space Control>` - remember, though, that there may be more external forces to handle in actual operation than during your test routine.

Reviewer: Seems like a run-on but I am not the grammar man so I defer to @Daltz333 

```suggestion
The simulated velocity RMSE is the standard deviation of the velocity error from the simulated model.  This is a good estimation of the amount of process noise present in your system.  It can then be used as a starting guess for the model noise term in :ref:`state-space control <docs/software/advanced-controls/state-space/state-space-intro:Introduction to State-Space Control>`.  Remember that there may be more external forces to handle in actual operation than during your test routine.
```

Reviewer 4: Jason's suggestion seems appropriate.

Diagnostic Plots
----------------

SysId also produces several diagnostic plots to help users evaluate the quality of their model fit.

.. image:: images/plot-view.png
   :alt: Diagnostic plot location

Time-Domain Plots
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note:: To improve plot quality, the diagnostic plots are separated by direction.  Be sure to view both the forward *and* backward plots when troubleshooting!

The Time-Domain Diagnostics plots display velocity versus time over the course of the analyzed tests. These should look something like this:

.. image:: images/time-domain-plots.png
   :alt: Picture of the time domain plots

The velocity time domain plots contain three sets of data: Raw Data, Filtered Data, and Simulation. The Raw Data is the recorded data from your robot, the Filtered Data is the data after a median filter has been applied to the data, and the Simulation represents the velocity predictions of a model based off of the feedforward gains from the tool (these are used to calculate the "sim" error metrics mentioned above).

> A successful quasistatic graph ought to be very nearly linear. A successful dynamic graph ought to have velocity that exponentially approaches a steady-state speed.

Reviewer: Using ought twice in a row sounds repetitive.
```suggestion
A successful quasistatic graph ought to be very nearly linear. A successful dynamic graph should have velocity that exponentially approaches a steady-state speed.
```

Deviation from this behavior is a sign of an :ref:`error <docs/software/pathplanning/system-identification/viewing-diagnostics:Common Failure Modes>`, either in your robot setup, analysis settings, or your test procedure.

Acceleration-Velocity Plot
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The acceleration-versus-velocity plot displays the mechanism velocity versus the portion of acceleration corresponding to factors other than friction (ideally, this would leave only back-EMF) and applied voltage across *all* of the tests.

.. image:: images/accel-vs-vel-plot.png
   :alt: Voltage domain plots picture

This plot should be quite linear, with patches of relatively noiseless quasistatic data intermixed with quite-noisy dynamic data. The noise on the dynamic sections of the plot may be reduced by increasing the :guilabel:`Window Size` setting.

.. image:: images/window-size-selector.png
   :alt: Picture of the window size selector

> However, if your robot or mechanism has low mass compared to the motor power, this may "eat" what little meaningful acceleration data you have (however, in these cases ``kA`` will tend towards zero and can usually be ignored, anyway).

Reviewer 3: An accurate `kA` actually makes a huge difference if you're using LQR, especially for low-inertia mechanisms. If `kA` isn't accurate, the feedback analysis results can't be trusted.

> However, if your robot or mechanism has low mass compared to the motor power, this may "eat" what little meaningful acceleration data you have.  In these cases ``kA`` will tend towards zero and can be ignored for feedforward purposes.  However, if ``kA`` cannot be accurately measured, the calculated feedback gains are likely to be inaccurate.

Reviewer 2: What should the user do with feedback gains if kA can't be measured?

Author: Tune manually?  That should be clear from context.

Common Failure Modes
--------------------

When something has gone wrong with the identification, diagnostic plots and console output provide crucial clues as to *what* has gone wrong.  This section describes some common failures encountered while running the system identification tool, the identifying features of their diagnostic plots, and the steps that can be taken to fix them.

> 

Reviewer: There are 2 more instances of Motion Threshold in lines you didn't modify directly below this.

To solve this, increase the velocity threshold and re-analyze the data.

Motion Threshold Too High
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: images/high-threshold.png
   :alt: Quasistatic time-domain plot with velocity threshold too high

While not nearly as problematic as a too-low threshold, a velocity threshold that is too high will result in a large "gap" in the acceleration-versus-velocity plot.

To solve this, decrease the velocity threshold and re-analyze the data.

Noisy Velocity Signals
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note:: There are two types of noise that affect mechanical systems - signal noise and system noise.  Signal noise corresponds to measurement error, while system noise corresponds to actual physical motion that is unaccounted-for by your model (e.g. vibration).  If SysId suggests that your system is noisy, you must figure out which of the two types of noise is at play - signal noise is often easier to eliminate than system noise.

.. image:: images/velo-noise.png

> Many FRC setups suffer from poorly-installed encoders - errors in shaft concentricity (for optical encoders) and magnet location (For magnetic encoders) can both contribute to noisy velocity signals, as can inappropriate filtering settings on the RIO.  Encoder noise will be immediately visible in your diagnostic plots, as can be seen above.  Encoder noise is especially common on the `toughbox mini <https://www.andymark.com/products/toughbox-mini-options>`__ gearboxes provided in the kit of parts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many FRC setups suffer from poorly-installed encoders - errors in shaft concentricity (for optical encoders) and magnet location (For magnetic encoders) can both contribute to noisy velocity signals, as can inappropriate filtering settings  Encoder noise will be immediately visible in your diagnostic plots, as can be seen above.  Encoder noise is especially common on the `toughbox mini <https://www.andymark.com/products/toughbox-mini-options>`__ gearboxes provided in the kit of parts.
```

Author: Inappropriate filter settings on the motor controllers can do this too.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, that's why I suggested removing the "on the RIO". Why did you mark this as resolved if you agree but didn't make a change?

Author: I had misread it as a suggested addition instead of removal.

> Motion Threshold Too Low

Reviewer: It is called Velocity Threshold in the UI.  I think these should match, lets either change the UI or this.

Reviewer 3: I prefer velocity threshold because it's more specific.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: images/low-threshold.png
   :alt: Quasistatic time-domain plot with threshold too low

The presence of a "leading tail" (emphasized by added red circle) in the quasistatic time-domain plot indicates that the :guilabel:`Motion Threshold` setting is too low, and thus data points from before the robot begins to move are being included.

To solve this, increase the setting and re-analyze the data.

Motion Threshold Too High
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. image:: images/high-threshold.png
   :alt: Quasistatic time-domain plot with threshold too high

> While not nearly as problematic as a too-low threshold, a motion threshold that is too high will result in a large "gap" in the velocity-versus-acceleration plot.

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't it be acceleration vs velocity since it goes Y vs X?

To solve this, decrease the setting and re-analyze the data.

Noisy Velocity Signals
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note:: There are two types of noise that affect mechanical systems - signal noise and system noise.  Signal noise corresponds to measurement error, while system noise corresponds to actual physical motion that is unaccounted-for by your model (e.g. vibration).  If SysId suggests that your system is noisy, you must figure out which of the two types of noise is at play - signal noise is often easier to eliminate than system noise.

.. image:: images/velo-noise.png

> Many FRC setups suffert from poorly-installed encoders - errors in shaft concentricity (for optical encoders) and magnet location (For magnetic encoders) can both contribute to noisy velocity signals, as can inappropriate filtering settings on the RIO.  Encoder noise will be immediately visible in your diagnostic plots, as can be seen above.  Encoder noise is especially common on the `toughbox mini <https://www.andymark.com/products/toughbox-mini-options>`__ gearboxes provided in the kit of parts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Many FRC setups suffer from poorly-installed encoders - errors in shaft concentricity (for optical encoders) and magnet location (For magnetic encoders) can both contribute to noisy velocity signals, as can inappropriate filtering settings on the RIO.  Encoder noise will be immediately visible in your diagnostic plots, as can be seen above.  Encoder noise is especially common on the `toughbox mini <https://www.andymark.com/products/toughbox-mini-options>`__ gearboxes provided in the kit of parts.
```
